[RDY] Update PR template and Contributing (#1976)
CorsixTH/CorsixTH: CONTRIBUTING.md

# CorisxTH Contributing Guidelines #

## Tell other devs what you are working on! ##

When you start working on a fix/enhancement for an open issue please always
post a comment in this issue's discussion to tell other devs that you have
started working on it so that they won't waste any of their free time by
working on their own fix/enhancement for it.

If there isn't an open issue discussion for a bug fix/enhancement you want
to work on please check that there isn't a closed discussion for it because
a previous developer of it didn't finish their work which you could finish.

And if there is no existing issue discussion for what you want to work on
please open a new issue for it and tell other devs here that your going to/
have started working on it.

> 

Reviewer: Suggest to ask or discuss in the Matrix channel as well in case of not being sure the new feature is wanted?

Author: That's the point of submitting a Feature Request  as below

Author: But you're right, just adding an enhancement PR without reason could be peculiar. Not that we could stop people doing it. Perhaps instead we should suggest making a Feature Request first.

Reviewer 2: I think we do want to stop people from doing it, drive by feature PRs for things we haven't discussed tend to waste everyone's time.

> please open a new issue for it and tell other devs here that your going to/
> have started working on it.
> 
> ## Enhancement/Suggestions ##

Author: ```suggestion
please open a new issue for it and tell other devs here that your going to/have started working on it.

**If you have an idea for an enhancement that does not have a discussion, please make a *Feature Request* first to discuss its desirability.  This helps make sure your development time is a worthy endeavour.**

## Enhancement/Suggestions ##
```

> If you want to make a suggestion, please use the *Feature Request* option when making a new issue. It will provide all the information needed to evaluate the suggestion or enhancement.\

Reviewer: Insert empty line

Author: Again note the backspace

Reviewer: I meant an empty line after the header line and before this line. See also line 4.

Not sure where you expect such a comment if not here.

> If you want to make a suggestion, please use the *Feature Request* option when making a new issue. It will provide all the information needed to evaluate the suggestion or enhancement.\

Author: ```suggestion

If you want to make a suggestion, please use the *Feature Request* option when making a new issue. It will provide all the information needed to evaluate the suggestion or enhancement.\
```

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20030128/123638352-fc609400-d816-11eb-88ad-11030e041fc4.png)

## Pull Requests ##

When providing a pull request ensure the description field describes the major
changes from the request. If your pull request relates to any existing
issues, include those issues in the description. The pull request provides a default layout to help you fill out this information.

#### Pull Request Statuses ####

> CorsixTH uses the following labels inside your Pull Request's title to denote its current progress.

Author: ```suggestion
CorsixTH uses the following labels inside your Pull Request's title to denote its current progress. Unlabelled pull request will be considered *Ready for Review* and may be merged without warning.
```

| Label | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| **[WIP]** | Work in Progress |
| **[RFC]** | Request for Comments (aka Ready for Review) |
| **[RDY]** | Ready |

Please make sure you label and update your Pull Request accordingly. Alternatively, you can submit a **Draft Pull Request** as an alternative to the **[WIP]** label.

> 

Reviewer: Add a sentence that pull requests without label are considered ready for review and merge if found ok.

Reviewer 2: I don't need the [RDY] label anymore, we can drop that as a concept - it just clutters the git history with [RDY] 😄

Author: I would disagree -- RDY is very handy as a concept. I know exactly what state a PR is in without going into it.

Author: (Not that people listen to us 🙃 anyway)

Reviewer 2: I would rather mark all other states draft, wip, and leave ready blank.

Author: What about RFC?

Reviewer 2: Sure, RFC serves a purpose - please look at me, but don't merge.

Author: Done. Assuming nobody is gonna be punished for still using [RDY] if they wanted though. That was my only holdup.

> #### CONTRIBUTING CODE: ####

Author: ```suggestion
#### CONTRIBUTING CODE: ####

```

> *NB: If you're using GitHub Desktop ignore the git steps and follow guidance from [GitHub Docs](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/installing-and-configuring-github-desktop/overview/getting-started-with-github-desktop)*\

Reviewer: Here too an empty line

Author: Backspace ``\`` is an escape character in MD, so newline not needed.

> *NB: If you're using GitHub Desktop ignore the git steps and follow guidance from [GitHub Docs](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/installing-and-configuring-github-desktop/overview/getting-started-with-github-desktop)*\

Author: ```suggestion
*NB: If you're using GitHub Desktop ignore the git specific commands and follow guidance from [GitHub Docs](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/installing-and-configuring-github-desktop/overview/getting-started-with-github-desktop)*\
```

**First Time**
1. Ensure you have a GitHub account (https://github.com/signup/free)
2. Fork CorsixTH\CorsixTH (https://github.com/CorsixTH/CorsixTH/fork)
3. Ensure you have a git client.  ([GitHub Desktop](http://desktop.github.com) [Interactive] | [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) [Shell])

> 4. Clone your fork to your computer

Reviewer: 4a Fork the repository

Reviewer 2: Step 2 was frok

	- ``git clone https://github.com/mygithubuser/CorsixTH.git``
5. Add upstream remote
	- ``git remote add upstream https://github.com/CorsixTH/CorsixTH.git``

**Every Time**
1. Sync your master branch with the CorisxTH repository's master branch

> 	- ``git fetch upstream``

Reviewer: first  `git checkout master` (although you need that only after fetching)

Author: Can you add your git changes as suggestions for me so I don't mess their order up?

> 	- ``git rebase upstream/master``

Reviewer: `git merge --ff-only upstream/master` rather than `rebase` as the latter may introduce addition commits that don't exist in upstream, thus making a mess when you push a branch

Reviewer 2: `git config branch.master.mergeOptions --ff-only` once, and never specify it again

Author: Please can you reflect this in a suggestion as I don't understand

2. Make sure no one is already working on the issue you want to work on.
3. Tell other developers that you've started/will start working on this issue
by posting a comment in its existing issue discussion or if there's no existing
discussion for it then please open a new issue discussion for it and tell other
devs here that your working on it.
4. Create feature branch

> 	- ``git branch myfeature upstream/master``

Reviewer: You branch from your own master normally

``` shell
git checkout master
git branch myfeature
```
(and replace `myfeature` by a more descriptive line like `add-rats-levels`)

Reviewer 2: Either is fine.
`git checkout -b myfeature master`

> 4. Create feature branch
> 	- ``git branch myfeature upstream/master``
> 5. Checkout your feature branch
> 	- ``git checkout myfeature``
> 6. Make your changes
> 7. Unittest continuously, see README.txt in CorsixTH/Luatest for more info
> 8. Review your changes
> 	- ``git diff``
> 	- ``git add`` | for each file
> 	- ``git diff --check`` | Check there's no white spaces.
> 	- ``git commit`` | Write an informative commit message and save
> 9. Push your changes to your fork
> 	- ``git push origin myfeature``
> 10. Create a Pull Request -- GitHub will pick up your latest branch committed to automatically when accessing CorsixTH/CorsixTH.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Create and checkout your feature branch
	- ``git checkout -b myfeature master``
5. Make your changes
6. Unittest continuously, see README.txt in CorsixTH/Luatest for more info
7. Review your changes
	- ``git diff``
	- ``git add`` | for each file
	- ``git diff --check`` | Check there's no white spaces.
	- ``git commit`` | Write an informative commit message and save
8. Push your changes to your fork
	- ``git push origin myfeature``
9. Create a Pull Request -- GitHub will pick up your latest branch committed to automatically when accessing CorsixTH/CorsixTH.
```

The developers will review and report any changes needed to your Pull Request so it could be accepted.

#### Notes ####
##### Multiple commits: #####

> If your feature is very big, break it into subprojects and do a separate commit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your feature is very big, break it into more smaller steps and do a separate commit
```

Reviewer 2: without the redundant `more` though.

Author: ```suggestion
If your feature is very big, break it into smaller steps and do a separate commit
```

for every independent operation.  This means doing step 10 several times as you
go. You still only need to do one pull request at the end.

##### Syncing with Upstream: #####
If it takes a long time between when you start your feature and when you finish

> there might be other important changes other people are making to CorsixTH.  It

Reviewer: ```suggestion
there might be other important changes that other people are make to CorsixTH.  It
```
(?)

Reviewer 2: I don't think so Albert, doesn't read like English.

is a good idea to make sure your code will still operate correctly with the
latest changes.  To do this:

> - ``git fetch upstream``

Reviewer: Again first `git checkout master`, since you sync `upstream/master` to your own `master`.
Also not `rebase` but `merge --ff-only` as before.

Then update your branch to the new master
``` shell
git checkout myfeature
git rebase master
```
and resolve any cpnflicts that may arise at this point.

Author: Can you write this into a suggestion of the correct use/order?

# CorisxTH Contributing Guidelines #

## Tell other devs what you are working on! ##

> When you start working on a fix/enhancement for an open issue please always

Reviewer 2: drop `please`

post a comment in this issue's discussion to tell other devs that you have
started working on it so that they won't waste any of their free time by
working on their own fix/enhancement for it.

If there isn't an open issue discussion for a bug fix/enhancement you want
to work on please check that there isn't a closed discussion for it because

> a previous developer of it didn't finish their work which you could finish.

Reviewer 2: Not clear what you mean here. What is a `discussion`?

> And if there is no existing issue discussion for what you want to work on

Reviewer 2: `issue` not `issue discussion`

Reviewer 2: change out `what you want to work on` for `the bug fix or feature you plan to contribute`

> please open a new issue for it and tell other devs here that your going to/have started working on it.

Reviewer 2: drop `please`

> **If you have an idea for an enhancement that does not have a discussion, please make a *Feature Request* first to discuss its desirability.  This helps make sure your development time is a worthy endeavour.**

Reviewer 2: drop `please`

## Enhancement/Suggestions ##

If you want to make a suggestion, please use the *Feature Request* option when making a new issue. It will provide all the information needed to evaluate the suggestion or enhancement.\
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20030128/123638352-fc609400-d816-11eb-88ad-11030e041fc4.png)

## Pull Requests ##

When providing a pull request ensure the description field describes the major
changes from the request. If your pull request relates to any existing
issues, include those issues in the description. The pull request provides a default layout to help you fill out this information.

#### Pull Request Statuses ####
CorsixTH encourages using the following labels inside your Pull Request's title to denote its current progress. Unlabelled pull request will be considered *Ready* and may be merged without warning.
| Label | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| **[WIP]** | Work in Progress |

> | **[RFC]** | Request for Comments (aka Ready for Review) |

Reviewer 2: Note that you do NOT need to RFC a PR before moving it to ready. The purpose of RFC is to get feedback on a general direction, or ask for assistance before finishing the PR. Ideally a comment would be added at the same time with the question / focus you'd like us to review.

> | **[RFC]** | Request for Comments (aka Ready for Review) |

Author: ```suggestion
| **[RFC]** | (Optional stage) Request for Comments (aka Ready for Review) |
```

> | ***\<blank>*** | Ready |

Reviewer 2: `none`, not `blank`

# CorisxTH Contributing Guidelines #

## Tell other devs what you are working on! ##

When you start working on a fix/enhancement for an open issue always post a
comment in this issue's discussion to tell other devs that you have started
working on it so that they won't waste any of their free time by working on
their own fix/enhancement for it.

If there isn't an open issue for a bug fix/enhancement you want to work on
please check that one wasn't closed by a previous developer who didn't finish
their work, which you could finish.

And if there is no existing issue the bug fix or feature you plan to contribute
open a new issue for it and tell other devs here that your going to/have
started working on it.

**If you have an idea for an enhancement that does not have a discussion, make
a *Feature Request* first to discuss its desirability.  This helps make sure
your development time is a worthy endeavour.**

## Enhancement/Suggestions ##

> If you want to make a suggestion, please use the *Feature Request* option when
> making a new issue. It will provide all the information needed to evaluate the

Author: ```suggestion
To suggest an enhancement, open a new [issue](https://github.com/CorsixTH/CorsixTH/issues/new/choose)
and click the *Feature Request* button.\
It will provide all the information needed to evaluate the
```

suggestion or enhancement.\

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20030128/123638352-fc609400-d816-11eb-88ad-11030e041fc4.png)

## Pull Requests ##

When providing a pull request ensure the description field describes the major
changes from the request. If your pull request relates to any existing issues,

> include those issues in the description. The pull request provides a default
> layout to help you fill out this information.

Author: ```suggestion
link those issues to the description by referencing them with a `#` followed by the issue number. 
The pull request provides a default layout to help you fill out this information.
```

#### Pull Request Statuses ####
CorsixTH encourages using the following labels inside your Pull Request's title
to denote its current progress. Unlabelled pull request will be considered
*Ready* and may be merged without warning.
| Label | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| **[WIP]** | Work in Progress |
| **[RFC]** | (Optional stage) Request for Comments (aka Ready for Review) |
| ***\<none>*** | Ready |

Please make sure you label and update your Pull Request accordingly.

> Alternatively, you can submit a **Draft Pull Request** as an alternative to the

Author: ```suggestion
You can also submit a **Draft Pull Request** as an alternative to the
```

**[WIP]** label.

> #### CONTRIBUTING CODE: ####
> 
> *NB: If you're using GitHub Desktop ignore the git specific commands and follow
> guidance from [GitHub Docs](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/installing-and-configuring-github-desktop/overview/getting-started-with-github-desktop)*\

Author: ```suggestion
#### CONTRIBUTING CODE: ####
**Important!**
Ensure you have read our [Coding Conventions](https://github.com/CorsixTH/CorsixTH/wiki/Coding-Conventions)
before starting your work. CorsixTH may uses styles different to your previous experience with ``Lua``
and ``C++``. The [Wiki](https://github.com/CorsixTH/CorsixTH/wiki/) also contains other useful information
that could be beneficial before contributing code.

*NB: If you're using GitHub Desktop ignore the git specific commands and follow
guidance from [GitHub Docs](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/installing-and-configuring-github-desktop/overview/getting-started-with-github-desktop)*\
```

2. Make sure no one is already working on the issue you want to work on.
3. Tell other developers that you've started/will start working on this issue
by posting a comment in its existing issue discussion or if there's no existing
discussion for it then please open a new issue discussion for it and tell other
devs here that your working on it.
4. Create feature branch from your master
	- ``git branch myfeature master``
5. Checkout your feature branch
	- ``git checkout myfeature``
6. Make your changes
7. Unittest continuously, see README.txt in CorsixTH/Luatest for more info
8. Review, add, and commit your changes
	- ``git diff`` | See your changes.
	- ``git diff --check`` | Check there's no white space.
	- ``git add`` | do this for each file
	- ``git commit`` | Write an informative commit message and save.
9. Push your changes to your fork
	- ``git push origin myfeature``
9. Create a Pull Request -- GitHub will pick up your latest branch committed to
automatically when accessing CorsixTH/CorsixTH.

The developers will review and report any changes needed to your Pull Request
so it could be accepted.

#### Notes ####
##### Multiple commits: #####

> If your feature is very big, break it into smaller steps and do a separate
> commit for every independent operation.  This means doing step 10 several times
> as you go. You still only need to do one pull request at the end.

Author: ```suggestion
If your pull request can not be summarised in a single sentence, break it into smaller steps
and do a separate commit for every independent operation (e.g. one sentence per commit is a
good measure). This means doing step 10 several times as you go. You still only need to do
one pull request at the end.
```

##### Syncing with Upstream: #####
If it takes a long time between when you start your feature and when you finish

> there might be other important changes other people are making to CorsixTH.  It
> is a good idea to make sure your code will still operate correctly with the
> latest changes.  To do this:

Author: ```suggestion
there might be other important changes other people are making to CorsixTH.  To
ensure your pull request operates correctly within the latest changes:
```

# CorisxTH Contributing Guidelines #

## Tell other devs what you are working on! ##

When you start working on a fix/enhancement for an open issue always post a
comment in this issue's discussion to tell other devs that you have started
working on it so that they won't waste any of their free time by working on
their own fix/enhancement for it.

If there isn't an open issue for a bug fix/enhancement you want to work on
please check that one wasn't closed by a previous developer who didn't finish
their work, which you could finish.

And if there is no existing issue the bug fix or feature you plan to contribute
open a new issue for it and tell other devs here that your going to/have
started working on it.

**If you have an idea for an enhancement that does not have a discussion, make

> a *Feature Request* first to discuss its desirability.  This helps make sure

Reviewer 2: Most of this document uses single space after . style.

your development time is a worthy endeavour.**

## Enhancement/Suggestions ##

To suggest an enhancement, open a new [issue](https://github.com/CorsixTH/CorsixTH/issues/new/choose) and click the *Feature Request*
button. It will provide all the information needed to evaluate the

> suggestion or enhancement.\

Author: ```suggestion
suggestion or enhancement.
```

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20030128/123638352-fc609400-d816-11eb-88ad-11030e041fc4.png)

## Pull Requests ##

When providing a pull request ensure the description field describes the major
changes from the request. If your pull request relates to any existing issues,
link those issues to the description by referencing them with a `#` followed by the issue number. 
The pull request provides a default layout to help you fill out this information.

#### Pull Request Statuses ####
CorsixTH encourages using the following labels inside your Pull Request's title
to denote its current progress. Unlabelled pull request will be considered
*Ready* and may be merged without warning.
| Label | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| **[WIP]** | Work in Progress |
| **[RFC]** | (Optional stage) Request for Comments (aka Ready for Review) |
| ***\<none>*** | Ready |

Please make sure you label and update your Pull Request accordingly.
You can also submit a **Draft Pull Request** as an alternative to the
**[WIP]** label.

#### CONTRIBUTING CODE: ####

> **Important!**

Author: ```suggestion
**Important!**\
```

> # CorisxTH Contributing Guidelines #

Author: ```suggestion
# CorsixTH Contributing Guidelines #
```
Oh dear... how did I not notice this.

working on it so that they won't waste any of their free time by working on
their own fix/enhancement for it.

If there isn't an open issue for a bug fix/enhancement you want to work on
please check that one wasn't closed by a previous developer who didn't finish
their work, which you could finish.

And if there is no existing issue the bug fix or feature you plan to contribute
open a new issue for it and tell other devs here that your going to/have
started working on it.

**If you have an idea for an enhancement that does not have a discussion, make
a *Feature Request* first to discuss its desirability.  This helps make sure
your development time is a worthy endeavour.**

## Enhancement/Suggestions ##

If you want to make a suggestion, please use the *Feature Request* option when
making a new issue. It will provide all the information needed to evaluate the
suggestion or enhancement.\

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20030128/123638352-fc609400-d816-11eb-88ad-11030e041fc4.png)

## Pull Requests ##

When providing a pull request ensure the description field describes the major
changes from the request. If your pull request relates to any existing issues,

> include those issues in the description. The pull request provides a default

Reviewer 2: I prefer the wording of Pull Requests from CONTRIBUTING.txt

	- ``git push origin myfeature``
9. Create a Pull Request -- GitHub will pick up your latest branch committed to
automatically when accessing CorsixTH/CorsixTH.

The developers will review and report any changes needed to your Pull Request
so it could be accepted.

#### Notes ####
##### Multiple commits: #####
If your feature is very big, break it into smaller steps and do a separate
commit for every independent operation.  This means doing step 10 several times
as you go. You still only need to do one pull request at the end.

##### Syncing with Upstream: #####
If it takes a long time between when you start your feature and when you finish
there might be other important changes other people are making to CorsixTH.  It
is a good idea to make sure your code will still operate correctly with the
latest changes.  To do this:
- Commit your work to the feature branch
- ``git checkout master``
- ``git fetch upstream``
- ``git merge --ff-only master``
- ``git checkout myfeature`` | switch back to your feature branch to continue
working on it

*NB: GitHub Desktop users need to conduct fetch upstream from your branch on
github.com and rebase from GitHub Desktop after*\

> What this does is downloads all the changes from CorsixTH/CorsixTH since you

Author: ```suggestion
This downloads all the changes from CorsixTH/CorsixTH since you
```

> started, and pretends that all your changes were made after them.  If there are

Reviewer 2: replace `and pretends that all your changes were made after them` with `and moves your commits on top of them`

Reviewer 2: wording predates your change - feel free to ignore

Author: ```suggestion
started, and moves your commits on top of them.  If there are
```
